Blazor Configuration UE pass (#20908)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/fundamentals/configuration.md

* [Azure App configuration provider](/azure/azure-app-configuration/quickstart-aspnet-core-app): The provider isn't appropriate for Blazor WebAssembly apps because Blazor WebAssembly apps don't run on a server in Azure.

> [!WARNING]
> Configuration in a Blazor WebAssembly app is visible to users. **Don't store app secrets, credentials, or any other sensitive data in configuration.**

For more information on configuration providers, see <xref:fundamentals/configuration/index>.

## App settings configuration

Configuration in app settings files are loaded by default. In the following example, a UI configuration value is stored in an app settings file and loaded by the Blazor framework automatically. The value is read by a component.

`wwwroot/appsettings.json`:

```json
{
  "h1FontSize": "50px"
}
```

Inject an <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.IConfiguration> instance into a component to access the configuration data.

`Pages/ConfigurationExample.razor`:

```razor
@page "/configuration-example"
@using Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration
@inject IConfiguration Configuration

<h1 style="font-size:@Configuration["h1FontSize"]">
    Configuration example
</h1>
```

> To read other configuration files from the `wwwroot` folder into configuration, use an <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> to obtain the file's content. When using this approach, the existing <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> service registration can use the local client created to read the file in `Program.Main`, as the following example shows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To read other configuration files from the `wwwroot` folder into configuration, use an <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> to obtain the file's content. When using this approach, the existing <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> service registration can use the local client, defined in `Program.Main`, to fetch the file, as the following example shows:
```

I think this is a bit clearer...

    <li>Type: @Configuration["wheels:brand:type"]</li>
    <li>Year: @Configuration["wheels:year"]</li>
</ul>
```

Obtain a section of the configuration in C# code with <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration.IConfiguration.GetSection%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>. The following example obtains the `wheels` section for the configuration in the preceding example:

```razor
@code {
    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        var wheelsSection = Configuration.GetSection("wheels");
        

        ...
    }
}
```

To read other configuration files from the `wwwroot` folder into configuration, use an <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> to obtain the file's content. When using this approach, the existing <xref:System.Net.Http.HttpClient> service registration can use the local client created to read the file, as the following example shows:

`wwwroot/cars.json`:

```json
{
    "size": "tiny"
}
```

`Program.Main`:

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.Configuration;

...

> var http = new HttpClient()

Reviewer: Good call to remove this now that we inject an HttpClient.

Author: Actually, I think I merely moved it. I'll pull it and use the existing client on the next commit.

Author: We inject, but not for `Program.Main`. I think the code is ok for this scenario. Let me know otherwise tho. :ear:

}
```

`Program.cs`:

```csharp

> // using Microsoft.Extensions.Logging;

Reviewer: Is this comment out intentional?

Author: Yes, it is. I'm still playing with the best way to call out our namespaces for code. I'll take another look on Thursday morning. Perhaps, calling it out in text when there's a single namespace would be best. In some cases, I use the fully-qualified member, so that's an option, too.

Author: I'd rather not show them in a code example when I need to show something nested a few levels (of braces) into an object. They can't really cut-'n-paste the namespaces for the code in `using` statements in these scenarios cleanly, and that's my general goal ... make as much stuff cut-'n-pastable as possible.

Author: One more point on that ...

I've had a **_TON_** 🐘 of feedback on this point: Devs usually seem to cut-'n-paste code directly out of a topic into their headed-to-production or test apps. They tell me this over-and-over in issues. I've had some readers directly ask me to exactly specify exactly what folder+file the code in a snippet refers to, whether they're expected to create a new class/member or it's already part of the project template and the text is just calling it out.

Therefore, most UE updates going forward will include:

* As much cut-'n-paste as possible to support this mode of consuming docs (e.g., give components file names and give them `@page` directives).
* A line above examples naming the folder/file (e.g., `Pages/Counter.razor`, `Shared/NavMenu.razor`, or `Extensions/MyCoolExtension.cs`).

Anyway ... I'll work a bit more on the namespace thing on Thursday morning. It's been a challenge forever. 😅

Reviewer: I see. I don't have a strong opinion on it since I usually selectively copy-paste `using`s into my code but I can see how people can be duped by the copy-paste everything problem. I'm fine with these being removed or indicated in a separate section.

Author: Each code block has its own **copy** button. Maybe the answer is to try it with the `using` statements in one block and (when the rest is separate code meant to be dropped in elsewhere in the file, e.g., `Program.Main`) place the rest of the statements in a separate code block. 🤠 *Texas Two-step* 🐴 ... They copy+paste the `using`s, and then they copy+paste the code ... very fast for the reader.
